hooks/README.md, before:

# Camio Hooks

## Introduction

Camio provides an image processing pipeline. Videos are uploaded to the Camio cloud from
a phone or an RTSP camera or a Camio Box. The Camio image pipeline provides a labeling 
service but also allows you to register your own labeling hooks. 
A hook is defined as a custom web service that can act on events, 
for example can compute labels from images extracted from events.

As videos are uploaded to Camio, they are segmented into events,
which are classified as boring, motion, and interesting. Interesting events are pre-classified by the Camio service, labeled, and a significative images are extracted from the videos in the event. If you have registsred a hook, and the event labels match your hook filter, the images beloging to the event are POSTed to your hook URL in the form of a JSON payload. Your hook URL should record the JSON payload, decoded it, extract the images, label them, and then POST the labels back to the callback_url provided by the initial hook call. The new labels are added to the event.

Your hook labels an entire Event (not just a single image or video) based on the images and/or video in that Event. One event may contain mutiple images and multiple videos. The same video can span multiple consecutive events. At this time we only send to your hook preprocessed images. Also, you only label events that Camio has alreday pre-filtered for you as interesting.

## Installing the example hook code

The provided code includes an installation script for Debian/Ubuntu 

   [hook-install.sh](hook-install.sh)

and an example of a hook:

   [hook-example.py](hook-example.py)

You can run the install with 

```shell
   ./hook-install.sh
```

and it will install the required dependencies and start two processes:

- a web server that received the hook calls and enqueues requests
- a background process that handles the requests and posts back labels to Camio

The queue is implemented as a mongodb database collection.

## The example hook

This hook-example.py depends on bottle (0.13), gunicorn, requests, PIL, and pymongo.

The hook-example.py code is build on bottle.py 0.13 and intended to work any WSGI web 
server. We recommend gunicorn (a prefork WSGI server) and the install script assumes it.
Once you have all the dependencies installed you can start the web server with:

```shell
    nohup gunicorn -w 2 app:hook-example -b 0.0.0.0:8000 > /tmp/gunicorn.log &
```

Here `8000` is the port to be used and 0.0.0.0 refers to any IP address.
`-w 2` requests two web server workers and `/tmp/gunicorn.log` is the location of the logfile.

The server will expose three endpoints:

1. GET http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/ which you can call to check the service is running
2. POST http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}} which will you have to register with Camio and be called by Camio to post event images
3. GET http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}} which you can call to obtain a list of pending tasks

The `api_key` is your own API key and you can make it up to be whatever you want. It has to match the [`API_KEY`](hook-example.py#L21) 
global variable in the example code. The purpose of the `API_KEY` is to allow Camio to access to your hook while preventing unauthorized access.

Along with the web server you must start the background process:

```shell
    nohup python hook-example.py > /tmp/taskqueue.log &
```

The background process retrieves pending tasks collected by the hook and posts computed labels back to Camio. The labels will be added to the originating video event.

The [hook-example.py](hook-example.py) depends on the following function:

```python
    def compute_labels(images):
        labels = []
        for image in images:
            ...
        labels = ['cat','dog','mouse']
        return labels
```

This does nothing more than return the same three labels (cat, dog, mouse) for each 
event, but you can edit it to user your favorite ML or NN tool such as Caffe or Tensorflow,
to perform Object Detection and compute labels from the images.

## Registering the hook

Once you create a labeling server, you register it as a [Camio Hook](http://api.camio.com/#create-a-hook)
with the POST to camio.com.

This is a two step process:

1. Login into Camio.com and goto: https://camio.com/settings/integrations
  There click on "Generate Token" to obtain a "Developer OAuth Token".
2. Using curl or other tool, register the hook as described in [Create a Hook](http://api.camio.com/#create-a-hook):

```shell
    curl \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: token {{oauth_token}}" \
    -d '{"callback_url": "https://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}", "type": "query_match", "parsed_query": "camera == '{{camera_name}}'"}
    -X POST https://www.camio.com/api/users/me/hooks
```

Here "https://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}" is the location of your hook including the `api_key` you have selected (not the same as your develper `oauth_token`). `parsed_query` is a string that will be used to filter which events to send to the hook. In the case of the example all those from the camera named 'mycamera'. The `parsed_query` allows a subset of the Python syntax. Namely and, or, not, in, <, <=, >, >=, ==, != operators and the following variables:


| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| camera | the name of the camera uploading the event |
| labels | a list of labels alreday associated to the event |
| date | the event start date as a python datetime object (date.year, date.day, etc are allowed). |

Commit message:

Formatting fixes for conditional operators etc...

hooks/README.md, after:

# Camio Hooks

## Introduction

Camio provides an image processing pipeline. Videos are uploaded to the Camio cloud from
a phone or an RTSP camera or a Camio Box. The Camio image pipeline provides a labeling 
service but also allows you to register your own labeling hooks. 
A hook is defined as a custom web service that can act on events, 
for example can compute labels from images extracted from events.

As videos are uploaded to Camio, they are segmented into events,
which are classified as boring, motion, and interesting. Interesting events are pre-classified by the Camio service, labeled, and a significative images are extracted from the videos in the event. If you have registsred a hook, and the event labels match your hook filter, the images beloging to the event are POSTed to your hook URL in the form of a JSON payload. Your hook URL should record the JSON payload, decoded it, extract the images, label them, and then POST the labels back to the callback_url provided by the initial hook call. The new labels are added to the event.

Your hook labels an entire Event (not just a single image or video) based on the images and/or video in that Event. One event may contain mutiple images and multiple videos. The same video can span multiple consecutive events. At this time we only send to your hook preprocessed images. Also, you only label events that Camio has alreday pre-filtered for you as interesting.

## Installing the example hook code

The provided code includes an installation script for Debian/Ubuntu 

   [hook-install.sh](hook-install.sh)

and an example of a hook:

   [hook-example.py](hook-example.py)

You can run the installation with the command:

```shell
   ./hook-install.sh
```

and it will install the required dependencies and start two processes:

1. a web server that received the hook calls and enqueues requests
2. a background process that handles the requests and posts back labels to Camio

The queue is implemented as a mongodb database collection.

## The example hook

This [hook-example.py](hook-example.py) depends on bottle (0.13), gunicorn, requests, PIL, and pymongo.

The hook-example.py code is build on bottle.py 0.13 and intended to work any WSGI web 
server. We recommend gunicorn (a prefork WSGI server) and the install script assumes it.
Once you have all the dependencies installed you can start the web server with:

```shell
    nohup gunicorn -w 2 app:hook-example -b 0.0.0.0:8000 > /tmp/gunicorn.log &
```

Here `8000` is the port to be used and `0.0.0.0` refers to the IP address of your hook server.
`-w 2` requests two web server workers and `/tmp/gunicorn.log` is the location of the logfile.

The server will expose three endpoints:

1. `GET http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/` which you can call to check that the service is running
2. `POST http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}` which is the `callback_url` you register with Camio to receive the POST of images to label
3. `GET http://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}` which you can call to obtain a list of pending tasks

The `api_key` is your own API key and you can make it up to be whatever you want. It has to match the [`API_KEY`](hook-example.py#L21) 
global variable in the example code. The purpose of the `API_KEY` is to allow Camio to access to your hook while preventing unauthorized access.

Along with the web server you must start the background process:

```shell
    nohup python hook-example.py > /tmp/taskqueue.log &
```

The background process retrieves pending tasks collected by the hook and posts computed labels back to Camio. The labels will be added to the originating video event.

The [hook-example.py](hook-example.py) depends on the following function:

```python
    def compute_labels(images):
        labels = []
        for image in images:
            ...
        labels = ['cat','dog','mouse']
        return labels
```

This does nothing more than return the same three labels (cat, dog, mouse) for each 
event, but you can edit it to user your favorite ML or NN tool such as Caffe or Tensorflow,
to perform Object Detection and compute labels from the images.

## Registering the hook

Once you create a labeling server, you register it as a [Camio Hook](http://api.camio.com/#create-a-hook)
with the `POST` to camio.com.

This is a two step process:

1. Open [https://camio.com/settings/integrations#api](https://camio.com/settings/integrations#api) and 
  press the "Generate Token" button to obtain a "Developer OAuth Token".
2. Using curl or other tool, register your hook as described in [Create a Hook](http://api.camio.com/#create-a-hook) with a command like:

```shell
    curl \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -H "Authorization: token {{oauth_token}}" \
    -d '{"callback_url": "https://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}", "type": "query_match", "parsed_query": "camera == '{{camera_name}}'"}
    -X POST https://www.camio.com/api/users/me/hooks
```

`https://{{your_domain}}:8000/tasks/{{api_key}}` is the location of your hook including the `api_key` you have selected (not the same as your develper `oauth_token`) and `parsed_query` is a string that will be used to filter which events to send to the hook. In the case of this example, all those from the camera named 'camera_name'. The `parsed_query` specifies the conditions of the filter and allows this subset of the Python conditional operators: 
`and`, `or`, `not`, `in`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`, `==`, `!=`. The variables that can be referenced in the conditions include:


| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| camera | the name of the camera uploading the event |
| labels | a list of labels alreday associated to the event |
| date | the event start date as a python datetime object (date.year, date.day, etc are allowed). |
